                11                    Transcription and
                                      RNA Processing
                CHAPTER OUTLINE
                ▶ Transfer of Genetic Information:
                    The Central Dogma
                ▶ The Process of Gene Expression
                ▶ Transcription in Prokaryotes
                ▶ Transcription and RNA Processing
                    in Eukaryotes
                ▶ Interrupted Genes in Eukaryotes:
                    Exons and Introns
                ▶ Removal of Intron Sequences by RNA
                    Splicing




      ▶Storage and Transmission of
       Information with Simple Codes
       We live in the age of the computer. It has an impact on virtually all
       aspects of our lives, from driving to work to watching spaceships land




                                                                                                                                                   Dr. Mark J. Winter/Photo Researchers.
       on the moon. These electronic wizards can store, retrieve, and analyze
       data with lightning-like speed. The “brain” of the computer is a small
       chip of silicon, the microprocessor, which contains a sophisticated and
       integrated array of electronic circuits capable of responding almost
       instantaneously to coded bursts of electrical energy. In carrying out its
       amazing feats, the computer uses a binary code, a language based on
       0’s and 1’s. Thus, the alphabet used by computers consists of only two
       symbols—in marked contrast to the 26 letters of the English alphabet.
       Obviously, if the computer can perform its wizardry with a binary alpha-
       bet, vast amounts of information can be stored and retrieved without
       using complex codes or lengthy alphabets. In this and the following
       chapter, we examine (1) how the genetic information of living creatures     Computer model of the structure of RNA polymerase II,
                                                                                   which catalyzes transcription of nuclear genes in eukaryotes.
       is written in an alphabet with just four letters, the four base pairs in
       DNA, and (2) how this genetic information is expressed in an organism.
       We will see that RNA plays a key role in the process of gene expression.




       252



CH11.indd 252                                                                                                                                                                              9/8/2015 10:09:29 AM
