                                                                                                                         The Process of Gene Expression       255

                catalytic components of the ribosomes, the intricate machines that translate nucleo-
                tide sequences of mRNAs into amino acid sequences of polypeptides. Small nuclear
                RNAs (snRNAs) are structural components of spliceosomes, the nuclear organelles that
                excise introns from gene transcripts. Micro RNAs (miRNAs) are short 20- to 22-nucleotide
                single-stranded RNAs that block the expression of complementary or partially com-
                plementary mRNAs by either causing their degradation or repressing their transla-
                tion. The roles of mRNAs and snRNAs are discussed in this chapter. The structures
                and functions of tRNAs and rRNAs will be discussed in detail in Chapter 12.
                The mechanisms by which miRNAs regulate gene expression are discussed in
                Chapter 18.
                     All five types of RNA—mRNA, tRNA, rRNA, snRNA, and miRNA—are pro-
                duced by transcription. Unlike mRNAs, which specify polypeptides, the final products
                of tRNA, rRNA, snRNA, and miRNA genes are RNA molecules. Transfer RNA, ribo-
                somal RNA, snRNA, and miRNA molecules are not translated. ◾ Figure 11.3 shows an
                overview of gene expression in eukaryotes, emphasizing the transcriptional origin and
                functions of the five types of RNA molecules. The process is similar in prokaryotes.
                However, in prokaryotes, the DNA is not separated from the ribosomes by a nuclear
                envelope. In addition, prokaryotic genes seldom contain noncoding sequences that are
                removed during RNA transcript processing.



                J The central dogma of molecular biology is that genetic information flows from DNA to DNA         KEY POINTS
                   during chromosome replication, from DNA to RNA during transcription, and from RNA
                   to protein during translation.
                J Transcription involves the synthesis of an RNA transcript complementary to one strand of DNA
                   of a gene.
                J Translation is the conversion of information stored in the sequence of nucleotides in the RNA
                   transcript into the sequence of amino acids in the polypeptide gene product, according to the
                   specifications of the genetic code.




                The Process of Gene Expression
                How do genes control the phenotype of an organism? Information stored in the nucleotide sequences of genes is
                How do the nucleotide sequences of genes direct the
                growth and development of a cell, a tissue, an organ,
                                                                             translated into the amino acid sequences of proteins from
                or an entire living creature? Geneticists know that the unstable intermediaries called messenger RNAs.
                phenotype of an organism is produced by the com-
                bined effects of all its genes acting within the constraints imposed by the environment.
                In this and the following chapter, we focus on the mechanisms by which genes direct
                the synthesis of their products, namely, RNAs and proteins. The mechanisms by which
                these gene products collectively control the phenotypes of mature organisms are dis-
                cussed in subsequent chapters, especially Chapter 22 on the Instructor Companion site.

                AN mRNA INTERMEDIARY
                If most of the genes of a eukaryote are located in the nucleus, and if proteins are syn-
                thesized in the cytoplasm, how do these genes control the amino acid sequences of
                their protein products? The genetic information stored in the sequences of nucleotide
                pairs in genes must somehow be transferred to the sites of protein synthesis in the cyto-
                plasm. Messengers are needed to transfer genetic information from the nucleus to the
                cytoplasm. Although the need for such messengers is most obvious in eukaryotes, the
                first evidence for their existence came from studies of prokaryotes. Some of the early
                evidence for the existence of short-lived messenger RNAs is discussed in the Focus on
                Evidence for an Unstable Messenger RNA on the Student Companion site.




CH11.indd 255                                                                                                                                             9/8/2015 10:09:33 AM
