       262      Chapter 11 Transcription and RNA Processing


                                                              Since AU base-pairing is weak, requiring less energy to separate the bases than any
                                                              of the other standard base pairs, the run of U’s after the hairpin region facilitates the
                                                              release of the newly synthesized RNA chains from the DNA template when the hair-
                                                              pin structure causes RNA polymerase to pause at this site.
                                                                   The mechanism by which rho-dependent termination of transcription occurs is
                                                              similar to that of rho-independent termination in that both involve the formation of
                                                              a hydrogen-bonded hairpin structure upstream from the site of termination. In both
                                                              cases, these hairpins impede the movement of RNA polymerase, causing it to pause.
                                                              However, rho-dependent terminators contain two additional sequences: a 50–90
                                                              nucleotide-pair sequence upstream from the inverted repeat sequences that produces
                                                              an RNA strand with many C’s but few G’s, which therefore forms no hairpins or other
                                                              secondary structures, and a sequence specifying a rho protein binding site called rut
                                                              (for rho utilization) near the 3′ end of the transcript. Rho protein binds to the rut
                                                              sequence in the transcript and moves 5′ to 3′ following RNA polymerase. When
                                                              polymerase encounters the hairpin, it pauses, allowing rho to catch up, pass through
                                                              the hairpin, and use its helicase activity to unwind the DNA/RNA base-pairing at the
                                                              terminus and release the RNA transcript.


                                                              CONCURRENT TRANSCRIPTION, TRANSLATION,
                                                              AND mRNA DEGRADATION
                                                              In prokaryotes, the translation and degradation of an mRNA molecule often begin
                                                              before its synthesis (transcription) is complete. Since mRNA molecules are syn-
                                                              thesized, translated, and degraded in the 5′ to 3′ direction, all three processes can
                                                              occur simultaneously on the same RNA molecule. In prokaryotes, the polypeptide-
                                                              synthesizing machinery is not separated by a nuclear envelope from the site of mRNA
                                                              synthesis. Therefore, once the 5′ end of an mRNA has been synthesized, it can
                                                              immediately be used as a template for polypeptide synthesis. Indeed, transcription and
                                                              translation often are tightly coupled in prokaryotes. Oscar Miller, Barbara Hamkalo,
                                                              and colleagues developed techniques that allowed them to visualize this coupling
                                                              between transcription and translation in bacteria by electron microscopy. One of their
                                                              photographs showing the coupled transcription of a gene and translation of its mRNA
                                                              product in E. coli is reproduced in ◾ Figure 11.11.




                                                Gene transcripts (RNA) being simultaneously
                                                translated by many ribosomes


                                                                                                                                                       From O. L. Miller, Jr., B. A. Hamkalo, and



                                                                                                                                                       C. A. Thomas, Jr., Science 169: 392–395,
                                                                                                                          Ribosomes

                                                                                                                                                       1970. Copyright (c) 1970 by the American
                                             DNA                                               mRNA


                                                                                                                                                       Association for the Advancement of Science.



                                                                                                                                                       Original micrograph courtesy O. L. Miller, Jr.

                                                      Direction of transcription                                                        0.5 μm

                             ◾ FIGURE 11.11 Electron micrograph prepared by Oscar Miller and Barbara Hamkalo showing the coupled transcription and
                             translation of a gene in E. coli. DNA, mRNAs, and the ribosomes translating individual mRNA molecules are visible. The nascent poly-
                             peptide chains being synthesized on the ribosomes are not visible as they fold into their three-dimensional configuration during
                             synthesis.




CH11.indd 262                                                                                                                                                                                           9/8/2015 10:09:37 AM
