                                                                                                               Transcription and RNA Processing in Eukaryotes       263


                J RNA synthesis occurs in three stages: (1) initiation, (2) elongation, and (3) termination.    KEY POINTS
                J RNA polymerases—the enzymes that catalyze transcription—are complex multimeric proteins.
                J The covalent extension of RNA chains occurs within locally unwound segments of DNA.
                J Chain elongation stops when RNA polymerase encounters a transcription–termination signal.
                J Transcription, translation, and degradation of mRNA molecules often occur simultaneously
                   in prokaryotes.



                Transcription and RNA Processing in Eukaryotes
                Although the overall process of RNA synthesis is similar in Five different enzymes catalyze transcription
                prokaryotes and eukaryotes, the process is considerably more
                complex in eukaryotes. In eukaryotes, RNA is synthesized in the in eukaryotes, and the resulting RNA transcripts
                nucleus, and most RNAs that encode proteins must be trans- undergo three important modifications, including
                ported to the cytoplasm for translation on ribosomes. There is
                                                                                         the excision of noncoding sequences called introns.
                evidence suggesting that some translation occurs in the nucleus;
                however, the vast majority clearly occurs in the cytoplasm.              The nucleotide sequences of some RNA transcripts are
                     Prokaryotic mRNAs often contain the coding regions of modified posttranscriptionally by RNA editing.
                two or more genes; such mRNAs are said to be multigenic. In
                contrast, many of the eukaryotic transcripts that have been characterized contain the
                coding region of a single gene (are monogenic). Nevertheless, up to one-fourth of
                the transcription units in the small worm Caenorhabditis elegans may be multigenic.
                Clearly, eukaryotic mRNAs may be either monogenic or multigenic.
                     Five different RNA polymerases are present in eukaryotes, and each enzyme cata-
                lyzes the transcription of a specific class of genes. Moreover, in eukaryotes, the majority
                of the primary transcripts of genes that encode polypeptides undergo three major modi-
                fications prior to their transport to the cytoplasm for translation (◾ Figure 11.12).
                1. 7-Methyl guanosine caps are added to the 5′ ends of the primary transcripts.
                2. Poly(A) tails are added to the 3′ ends of the transcripts, which are generated by
                   cleavage rather than by termination of chain extension.
                3. When present, intron sequences are spliced out of transcripts.
                The 5′ cap on most eukaryotic mRNAs is a 7-methyl guanosine molecule joined to
                the initial nucleoside of the transcript by a 5′-5′ phosphate linkage. The 3′ poly(A) tail
                is a polyadenosine tract 20 to 200 nucleotides long.
                     In eukaryotes, the population of primary transcripts in a nucleus is called
                heterogeneous nuclear RNA (hnRNA) because of the large variation in the sizes of the RNA
                molecules present. Major portions of these hnRNAs are noncoding intron sequences,
                which are excised from the primary transcripts and degraded in the nucleus. Thus, much
                of the hnRNA actually consists of pre-mRNA molecules undergoing various processing
                events before leaving the nucleus. Also, in eukaryotes, RNA transcripts are coated with
                RNA-binding proteins during or immediately after their synthesis. These proteins pro-
                tect gene transcripts from degradation by ribonucleases, enzymes that degrade RNA
                molecules, during processing and transport to the cytoplasm. The average half-life of a
                gene transcript in eukaryotes is about 5 hours, in contrast to an average half-life of less
                than 5 minutes in E. coli. This enhanced stability of gene transcripts in eukaryotes is
                provided, at least in part, by their interactions with RNA-binding proteins.

                FIVE RNA POLYMERASES/FIVE SETS OF GENES
                Whereas a single RNA polymerase catalyzes all transcription in E. coli, eukaryotes
                ranging in complexity from the single-celled yeasts to humans contain from three
                to five different RNA polymerases. Three enzymes, designated RNA polymerases I, II,
                and III, are known to be present in most, if not all, eukaryotes. All three are more
                complex, with 10 or more subunits, than the E. coli RNA polymerase. Moreover,




CH11.indd 263                                                                                                                                                   9/8/2015 10:09:37 AM
