                                                                                                          Interrupted Genes in Eukaryotes: Exons and Introns       271

                    Tilghman and coworkers confirmed their interpretation of the R-loop results by
                comparing the sequence of the mouse β-globin gene with the predicted amino acid
                sequence of the β-globin polypeptide. Their results showed that the gene contained a
                noncoding intron between stretches of coding sequence. Subsequent research showed
                that the mouse β-globin gene actually contains two introns, one so small that it does
                not show up in the R-looping experiments. For details of these studies and additional
                information on the discovery of introns, see A Milestone in Genetics: Introns on the
                Student Companion site.


                SOME VERY LARGE EUKARYOTIC GENES
                Introns are widespread in the genomes of plants, animals, fungi, and protists, which
                are all eukaryotes. They are also found in the genomes of some archaea, which are
                prokaryotes, and in the chromosomes of a few bacterial viruses. Some genes con-
                tain many introns. For example, the Xenopus laevis gene that encodes vitellogenin
                A2 (which ends up as egg yolk protein) contains 33 introns, and the chicken 1α2
                collagen gene contains at least 50 introns. The collagen gene spans 37,000 nucleo-
                tide pairs but gives rise to an mRNA molecule only about 4600 nucleotides long.
                Other genes contain relatively few introns, but some of the introns are very large.
                For example, the Ultrabithorax (Ubx) gene of Drosophila contains an intron that is
                approximately 70,000 nucleotide pairs in length. The largest gene characterized to
                date is the human DMD gene, which causes Duchenne muscular dystrophy when
                rendered nonfunctional by mutation. The DMD gene spans 2.5 million nucleotide
                pairs and contains 78 introns.
                    Although introns are present in most genes of higher animals and plants, they
                are not essential because not all such genes contain introns. The sea urchin histone
                genes and four Drosophila heat-shock genes were among the first animal genes
                shown to lack introns. We now know that many genes of higher animals and plants
                lack introns.


                INTRONS: BIOLOGICAL SIGNIFICANCE?
                At present, scientists know relatively little about the biological significance of the
                exon–intron structure of eukaryotic genes. Introns are highly variable in size, ranging
                from about 50 nucleotide pairs to thousands of nucleotide pairs in length. This fact has
                led to speculation that introns may play a role in regulating gene expression. Although
                it is unclear how introns regulate gene expression, new research has shown that some
                introns contain sequences that can regulate gene expression in either a positive or negative
                fashion. Other introns contain alternative tissue-specific promoters; still others contain
                sequences that enhance the accumulation of transcripts. The fact that introns accumu-
                late new mutations much more rapidly than exons indicates that many of the specific
                nucleotide-pair sequences of introns, excluding the ends, are not very important.
                      In some cases, the different exons of genes encode different functional domains of
                the protein gene products. This is most apparent in the case of the genes encoding heavy
                and light antibody chains (see Chapter 22 on the Instructor Companion site). In the
                case of the mammalian globin genes, the middle exon encodes the heme-binding domain
                of the protein. There has been considerable speculation that the exon–intron structure of
                eukaryotic genes has resulted from the evolution of new genes by the fusion of uninter-
                rupted (single exon) ancestral genes. If this hypothesis is correct, introns may merely be
                relics of the evolutionary process.
                      Alternatively, introns may provide a selective advantage by increasing the rate at
                which coding sequences in different exons of a gene can reassort by recombination, thus
                speeding up the process of evolution. In some cases, alternate ways of removing introns
                from pre-mRNAs produce mRNAs that encode different, but related, polypeptides. In
                these cases, introns allow a gene to encode more than one product (see Chapter 18). The
                coding potential of the entire genome is thereby increased.




CH11.indd 271                                                                                                                                                  9/8/2015 10:09:44 AM
