                                                                                                                       Removal of Intron Sequences by RNA Splicing       275

                snRNAs range in size from 100 nucleotides (U6) to 215 nucleotides (U3). Some of
                the snRNAs in the yeast S. cerevisiae are much larger. These snRNAs do not exist as
                free RNA molecules. Instead, they are present in small nuclear RNA–protein com-
                plexes called snRNPs (small nuclear ribonucleoproteins, usually pronounced “snurps”).
                Spliceosomes are assembled from four different snRNPs and protein splicing factors
                during the splicing process.
                     Each of the snRNAs U1, U2, and U5 is present by itself in a specific snRNP par-
                ticle. snRNAs U4 and U6 are present together in a fourth snRNP; U4 and U6 snRNAs
                contain two regions of intermolecular complementarity that are base-paired in the U4/
                U6 snRNP. Each of the four types of snRNP particles contains a subset of seven well-
                characterized snRNP proteins plus one or more proteins unique to the particular type
                of snRNP particle.
                     The first stage in nuclear pre-mRNA splicing involves cleavage at the 5′ intron
                splice site ( GU-intron) and the formation of an intramolecular phosphodiester
                linkage between the 5′ carbon of the G at the cleavage site and the 2′ carbon of a
                conserved A residue near the 3′ end of the intron. This stage occurs on complete spli-
                ceosomes (Figure 11.22) and requires the hydrolysis of ATP. Evidence indicates that
                the U1 snRNP must bind at the 5′ splice site prior to the initial cleavage reaction.
                Recognition of the cleavage site at the 5′ end of the intron probably involves base-
                pairing between the consensus sequence at this site and a complementary sequence
                near the 5′ terminus of snRNA U1. However, the specificity of the binding of at least
                some of the snRNPs to intron consensus sequences involves both the snRNAs and
                specific snRNP proteins.
                     The second snRNP to be added to the splicing complex appears to be the U2
                snRNP; it binds at the consensus sequence that contains the conserved A residue
                that forms the branch point in the lariat structure of the spliced intron. Thereafter,
                the U5 snRNP binds at the 3′ splice site, and the U4/U6 snRNP is added to the
                complex to yield the complete spliceosome (Figure 11.22). When the 5′ intron
                splice site is cleaved in step 1, the U4 snRNA is released from the spliceosome. In
                step 2 of the splicing reaction, the 3′ splice site of the intron is cleaved, and the
                two exons are joined by a normal 5′ to 3′ phosphodiester linkage (Figure 11.22).
                The spliced mRNA is now ready for export to the cytoplasm and translation on
                ribosomes.


                J Noncoding intron sequences are excised from RNA transcripts in the nucleus prior to their            KEY POINTS
                   transport to the cytoplasm.
                J Introns in tRNA precursors are removed by the concerted action of a splicing endonuclease and
                   ligase, whereas introns in some rRNA precursors are spliced out autocatalytically—with no
                   catalytic protein involved.
                J The introns in nuclear pre-mRNAs are excised on complex ribonucleoprotein structures called
                   spliceosomes.
                J The intron excision process must be precise, with accuracy to the nucleotide level, to ensure that
                   codons in exons distal to introns are read correctly during translation.




CH11.indd 275                                                                                                                                                        9/8/2015 10:09:45 AM
