[00:00] I did the 800, so, mile to mile. I had to do that. I thought you said, you did your degree. Oh, really? Football coach, he's like, you know, the track. Give him a shake. That's a rule. Yeah, you can't take that off. You gotta call. 800 is like a really long streak. I guess this really goes slow. That's a new question. I don't know. Yeah, I need to work out. What is this? Do you think this is my formula? That's okay. Maybe. I think my dad will visit the shin.
[00:51] I'm going to see a flat eye mold. All right. Good morning, everyone. How are we doing today? Good. Does everyone have the top hat today? I see that only we're missing 10 people on top hat. Did everyone get it? Did you have a question? I don't know if y'all just saw, but I just updated your last home quiz. There were two wrong questions on there. So I gave you points for it. It was the percent of calcium in the bones. It was supposed to be 99%, but it wasn't. So I gave it back to you. And then the number of bones in the body was also, there's three different numbers in the body,
[01:44] so we gave you points for all of those in person. So your grades should have gotten up, so that's good. And then I also put on our, in our class, I put these two things right here. The axial skeleton study guide and then the apodigular skeleton study guide. These are for you to study. This is what they look like. I'll show you. If they aren't helpful for you, it's completely fine. You don't have to use them. but if they are, I would recommend you use them. We have a quiz next week. The quiz is going to be on the axial
[02:31] and perpendicular skeleton, so what we've done, basically the entire skeleton, next week, it is the entire skeleton. So we'll talk about that, and then we'll talk about what you need to know on these diagrams as well. Yeah, does anyone have any questions before we start? I just think this class, this lab today is kind of a fun one. It's going to be a little humorous. It is. It's humorous as a bone. It's really funny. It is funny. Yeah, I think we have anything else for you guys.
[03:29] Again, Anki or spaced repetition is going to be the best thing to learn all of this. And then downloading the PowerPoints from Canvas shows you the notes that I have so I can teach. So that is a very good thing for you guys to see what I want you guys to know. And so, okay. All right, let's pray and I'll get started. Good morning. Thank you. Dear God, thank you for this day. Thank you that we get to come here and learn about the skeleton that you've made. Thank you for all of the learning we get to do here at Liberty. I pray that these students are able to understand what is going on and that they have fun today.
[04:16] In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Alright, what did we go over last week? Does anyone know? The axial skeleton. The axial skeleton, what does that include? What was that? It was the head, all of that, the cephalic region, with all the facial bones, the cranial bones, then we have the vertebrae, then we have the ribcage.
[05:05] Yeah, that's about it. And then the sternum as well. Does anyone remember what the bones of the sternum are? Just asking. asking. If not, that's fine. This is the xyphor process, this is the body, and then this is the manubrium. All right, that's good. All right, we know that there are 80 axial bones in the skeleton. We looked at all of these last week, so that means 80 minus two or 206
[05:54] minus 80. There's 126 bones that we see here. These are all of the different bones that we have in our appendicular skeleton. You need to know them by name, but you do not need to know the numbers of each. We're not going to test you how many many metal marbles are there. Yeah, you just don't need to know that. I mean you should, but yeah. So this is a great little thing just for you to know. To identify all of these bones, we want to emphasize laterality. Does anyone know what laterality means? Left and right. Left and right, good. Based on the bones, if we give you this bone,
[06:39] Hopefully by the end of today you will have a concept and understanding of something and how to identify these bones. But if we give you just this, you need to know whether it's right or left. Awesome. So obviously if we have it like this, you'll be able to know whether it's right or left. But when it's just not like that, which is what it will be on the practical, just a bone right in front of you, we want you to know everything for that. So how we do that first is we need to first identify the anterior posterior side and then we need to then identify the left and right. If we just do the left and right first that can become a little confusing with some bones as they can look, they have different orientations and they could go either way.
[07:31] Not saying they are either way but it looks like it could go either way. Does that make sense? Awesome. Alright, so the pectoral girdle. This is where the humerus, which is what Dr. Glaze just said. This is the humerus, but the pelvic girdle is where the upper extremity attaches to the axial skeleton, okay? So this clavicle right here, many of you guys have a clavicle. Not in your body, but on your desk, I mean. I hope you all have a clavicle. But we also have this scapula back here. The scapula is a beautiful bone. It was a little bit of my least favorite bone when I took this class.
[08:20] It was a little hard for me to understand the orientation of it. But I hope to help you guys understand the orientation of that. The clavicle is also a bit harder as well. So we have this S-curve bone like this, and we all know where our clavicle is, but knowing the orientation of this is a little bit confusing. So if we look at this, if we look at this right here, we have our sternal end, and then we have our acromial end. Does everyone see that on the screen? The acromial end is the circular or the non-flat shaped part right here.
[09:08] And then the sternal end is going to be right here. So this part is going to articulate with the sternum. So that means, I mean the sternum is pretty flat already, so we need this part to be flat as well. So it looks kind of like a nail. We're gonna see a couple bones in the body in the appendicular skeleton that looks like one side of the bone was hammered in and it kind of lost its shape. So that side right here, the sternal end is going to be the flat part, and then this, the acromial end, is going to be the round part, okay? So then we see the superior and inferior sides. How we know whether we're looking
[09:55] from a superior or inferior view is the conoid tubercle. The conoid tubercle is inferior. Let me have yours. Sorry. The conoid tubercle is going to be inferior. So when we're looking at this, we're going to, if we see this bony process right here on the bottom of our, it's closer to the acromial end, this is going to be inferior, okay? And then when we look at, if you guys feel your clavicle, okay, what you're feeling is this big curve right here, but as you go towards the shoulder, you feel it less and less, right? Depending on how much tissue you have around it,
[10:44] but this specifically right here is where the clavicle is what you're feeling. Okay, so this bigger curvature, does everyone see the bigger curvature whereas that one's a little bit tinier? Yeah, so that one is going to be more facing anterior. Okay, so that means, if you're looking at this, this is the big curvature right here and this is going to be facing anterior. So anterior is this, posterior is this, and then this is going to be the what side? If we see the connoid tubercle. Superior or inferior? Inferior.
[11:30] Inferior. Awesome. All right. So, knowing that, is this the right or left plopicle? It's the right clavicle. Awesome. And it does say that right there, but it's fine. Alright, so that, this is where the acromial process, or the acromial end, articulates with the acromial process. The acromial process is what we'll go over next. So that is the articulation of the clavicle and the scapula, and then we have the articulation of the sternum and the clavicle right here. Okay? Stern of the particular joints.
[12:15] Alright, we went over this. Does anyone have any questions on that? Does it mean the sternal end points medially? Yes, the sternal end points medially. So if we remember medial, lateral. So the acromial end points laterally, and the sternal end points medially because the sternum is medial. Alright, now we'll go over the scapula. This is a little bit confusing, but that's okay. Thank you so much. So there are many landmarks on the scapula that you need to know, but first we're going to look at this and identify whether it's posterior or anterior.
[13:06] So if we're looking at a posterior view, which is what we're looking at, this guy right here, we see this part of the scapula, this one right here. This is called the spine of the scapula. This is a major attachment point for bones, not bones, muscles and other things. That is called the spine of the scapula. You can feel that back there as well. Kind of, maybe. So that is going to be there and that is going to tell you that it's posterior. Okay, the other side if you look at that from an anterior view does not have that sternal the scapular Okay
[13:52] We then want to look at the different processes to understand whether that it's right or left or or anterior posterior. So the coracoid process we see right here, that's also going to be anterior to the acromial process. The acromial process articulates with what? We just went over. The acromial process. There is one bone that articulates with this process. The clavicle. The clavicle. Alright, and then we have the glenoid cavity. So if you guys pull out your little scapulas, you can see there's almost like a ball and socket joint.
[14:40] That is going to always be lateral. So that's how we determine whether it's right or left. Okay? So if we're looking at the posterior anterior view, we found the spine of the scapula, And then after that we find in relation to the spine of the scapula, the glenoid cavity, which is where the humerus attaches to the scapula. The glenoid cavity will tell me it's lateral. So if we see that it's lateral, here. That's cute. So if we're looking at it like this, we see that the glenoid cavity is here. most people would think that this curved end I thought it when I was in your shoes would be the lateral side but if that's the lateral side then the glenoid
[15:29] cavity is medial okay so I mean yeah all right so that means it should be like this in my body okay this is the anterior end because there's no spine I mean it's kind of good on this side but there's no spine of the scapula here and then the glenone cavity faces left laterally okay so the same thing if you guys some of you guys may have a right scapula and then if this is also anterior and to your landmark this is the acromi not the acromi the coracoid process right here and then this bigger one is called the acromial process okay The acromial process is where the acromial end of the clavicle articulates.
[16:15] Thank you. Maybe I'll have the pictures. You do not need to know every single thing on this diagram, but if we look at the borders, I want you guys to know the borders. That's pretty important. A lot of this stuff is important if you want to learn it, if you understand why it's there, but you don't have to, we're not going to ask you about the supraspinous fossa or the infraspinous fossa. Basically just the fossa's you don't need to know, but everything else is up for grabs. We need to know the lateral border. The lateral border will also tell you whether it's facing lateral or medially.
[17:01] and then we have the medium order and the superior order. Alright, does anyone have any questions on this? This is a one to understand for sure. No? Great. Alright, then we have the humerus moving down the upper extremity. This is the humerus right here. This attaches to the glenone cavity of the scapula and articulates with the radius and ulna down here in the forearm. So we want you to understand laterality for this one as well. All of them are prolaterality. But we're going to first look at the head of the humerus.
[17:49] The head of the humerus is always going to point medially. But here we have one here. If we look at that, there's a problem because if you turn it around, it can always phase immediately. So we need to find other landmarks to know whether we're looking anterior or posterior. And then if we're looking posterior, we can shift it like that. Okay, so the deltoid tuberosity is going to show that we are on the lateral side, right here, and right here, and then we also have the head of the humerus is our medial bandwork. If we're looking at the anterior-posterior, we need to look at these beautiful little articulations right here.
[18:44] The posterior view does not have these super-bulging bony processes called the capitulum and the trochia. Okay, the posterior end has this olecranon fossa. Do you have a question? Sorry, I'm not having a question. The olecranon fossa is that little spot in the middle of the humerus in the posterior end. So right here, do we see that? On our little graph. So if we're looking at this, we see that there's these three little bumps, the capitulum and the trochlea is going to be here. That's going to be on the anterior side of the humerus.
[19:31] And then if we look on the posterior side, this guy right here called the olecranal facet is going to be right here. This is where the actual ulna will articulate and move back and forth and it kind of has a spot in the bone where it can kind of sit back into, if that makes sense. I'll show you the articulation in a minute with the ulna, so it's a little bit easier for you to understand. So we have this, so is this an anterior or posterior view? Anterior because of what? So is this medial or lateral? This ball, medial, awesome.
[20:16] And then we have the deltoid tuberosity, which is going to be lateral, okay? So is this right or left? Right, awesome. All right, so I would understand the greater and lesser tubercle as well. These are going to be on the anterior surface and these are going to be places for muscle attachments as well, so the greater tubercle is more superior lateral to the lesser tubercle, which is going to be anterior. Okay, and then we have some fossa down here. We want you to know the radial fossa,
[21:04] that's a spot for the radius to move around, and then the eleprenon fossa as well on the posterior side. Also to note left and right, we have the lateral epicondyle and the medial epicondyle. So the medial epicondyle is going to be that bigger spot right here that is going to be the medial epicondyle. That is what you're going to feel right here on the medial side of your elbow. Okay, and then we have the lateral epicondyle, which is here. Great job. Next we're going to look into the radius and the ulna. This right here, I do not think we will
[22:00] I won't ask you about this in the actual practical or anything, but it is a pretty cool thing. These are a kind of articulation, it's the interosseous membrane connecting the radius and oval. Alright, so the elephronod fossa we talked about, is that posterior or anterior of the humerus? The elephronod fossa. Posterior. Posterior. So, looking at that, we have, my voice is crazy this morning. Do y'all have one? Press out. Press out, huh? Y'all have like multiple of the same.
[22:47] Does anyone have a beautiful woman? No. Okay. Well, I'll just use this guy up here. Alright, we have this right here. Um, let me situate it correctly. Maybe. That's wrong. Yes, it is. That'll do easier. Thank you. That's a radius, though. But I wanted the ulma.
[23:34] So the ulma, it has this big, nice C-shaped claw going up to the humerus. So this is how you know this is the superior portion of the ulnar, okay? This is the eleprenon process, okay? Right up here, y'all see that? So this goes and attaches posteriorly to the humerus, okay? So that is how we get this motion of our arm. Everyone do this. That's how we get the motion with the eleprenon. and that sits directly in that electron fossa. So let me teach you guys a little bit about a fossa. A fossa is something within a bone where something else sits.
[24:20] So we know what tuberosity is, a tubercle process. Those are things that are kind of bulging out from a bone. A fossa is something like a divot within a bone where something else sits, like a muscle or another bone articulating within. So with this, the olecranon process sits directly inside of the olecranon fossa of the humerus. Okay? And you can see that if we connect those, does everyone see that? There's like a little hole there. And then if you put that in, it's directly in there. Okay? Amazing. All right. Yes, you have a question? Yes. So what would allow someone to be able to bend beyond that point with their elbow?
[25:06] That is a good question. Probably it's not actually he's a doctor. Are you going to pass that? Yes because I'm flexible and I can go beyond that point. You've heard the key word flexible. So you have a little more elasticity in that joint that allows it to extend. So it's just the elasticity not more or less of anything. The area around the deer is much more flexible for you so you can extend it. Okay. Awesome. So we know about the trochlea as well of the humerus. So this is going to be the trochlear notch where the trochlea of the humerus sits in the elecrum. Okay? That is not the elecrum.
[25:53] The hole. Okay? And then we have the anterior side of that big C-shaped process that is called the coronoid process. and then on top, so my big fingers up here, that's called the olecranon process, and then this is the coronary process, okay? So the coronary process is more anterior, whereas the olecranon process is more posterior. The radial tuberosity is next, so we have that right here, if we have a radius, that is going to be this big guy right here, that is going to be more medially than the, everything else. And then we see this guy, this flat surface on the end,
[26:40] that is going to be the superior portion of the radius. And then we're also going to look at the differences between the sizes of the sides of the radius and ulna. If we see, the ulna is very large in the superior portion portion but very small in the proximal portion is larger and then the distal portion is smaller and in the radius we have a smaller proximal end and a larger distal end. So that's how we want to, when we build a chat there, that is our activity today, we're going to compete against each other for building the entire skeleton.
[27:26] We want you to make sure that these bones are articulated correctly in the correct fashion they're made in. Okay? Alright, we have the radius here and then the ulna. Then we have the head of the ulna right down here, that is the smaller portion, whereas the head of the radius is going to be up here. It's a little different, but the head is the smaller region of the bone. Alright? Then we have the styloid process of the radius. This is very important because this is going to show you the laterality of the radius and ulna. The styloid process of the radius is going to be lateral. This is in anatomical position,
[28:11] so when we're all talking about this, all of this stuff is going to be in anatomical position, what we taught you in the first week. This is not going to be, I mean, this right here would show that it would be medial, but this is how we want you to remember everything. This is how we're going to discuss it. So when we talk about the radius, this is the styloid process is going to be on the lateral side. So this bony structure in our wrist, that is going to be our styloid process of the radius. Okay? And we also have a styloid process of the ulna. It is on the head of the ulna. And this is going to turn medially. remember we have to understand the anatomical position of each. Alright? Does anyone have
[29:00] any questions on these two bones? No? So if I gave you a bone right now, let's do it. So we know that this is posterior or inferior view? Posterior, why is that? This would be an anterior view because we see that this one right here is going to be medially, but it's also a little more posterior, okay? This is the radio process, okay? Right here. And then we have, what is this guy down here? Styler process of the radius, yes.
[29:50] So is that lateral or medial? Lateral, awesome. So knowing that, we know that this is an anterior view, and we know that this is a styler process, which is lateral, is this right or left? It's left. Awesome. Good job. I have one up here. Awesome. We also want you to know right here we see this, if I can find my mind, mouse. We see that this flat end, if we look at our radius, That flat end of the radius is going to be of the actual distal portion of the radius.
[30:41] The flat end is going to be the anterior view, and the rounded, more rough textured side is going to be the posterior view. Now we're going to look into the hand. The hand has a lot of bones, just as well as the foot as well. So we have a mnemonic for you for both the carpal bones and as well as the tarsal bones. We'll talk about that in a bit. But the mnemonic for the carpal bones is called Solon to Pinky. Here comes the thumb. Can everyone see that? Is this what everyone's with?
[31:27] So long to pinky, here comes the thumb. To understand laterality for this, we first have to identify anterior and posterior. So when looking at a hand, let's say, who has a hand? Oh, there it is. No? Okay. I don't know where these hands went from. It must have been open line last night. So when we're looking at a hand, this is going to be the anterior view because we see the pisiform. The pisiform is a small bone in the lateral aspect of the hand, but it's going to be on the anterior surface of the hand in the palmar region, okay? So it's going to kind of sit on top of the triquetrum, which is directly beside it and below it, right here.
[32:18] So the pisiform is here, and then we have the triquetrum, okay? So the pisiform is our main points for anterior and posterior understanding. Okay? One easier way to do it. You're in the anatomical position. Where's the thumb? Laterally. So just remember the thumb's gonna be lateral, the pinky's gonna be medial. Medial, okay? So if you take that hand, and you put it in the anatomical position, you're gonna have lateral, it's gonna be the thumb, pinky's gonna be there, and go down to the response. So, starting with the mnemonic, we have so long to pinky, here comes the thumb.
[33:03] So we're going to start with that mnemonic at the carpal bones directly underneath the thumb. Okay, and then we're going to go clockwise in, kind of clockwise, in this vicinity. Okay, so we're gonna start with the scapoid, so long, too pinky, so scaphoid, lunate, triquetrum, and then pisiform. Here comes the thumb, so hammy right here, and then we have the capitate right here, the trapezoid and trapezium. So the trapezoid and trapezium are spelled very much alike, so we want to make sure that we are not switching those up because if we switch those up, that is technically wrong,
[33:49] even though it looks really close to each other. The trapezoid and trapezium are two separate bones, so we want you to make sure that that is correct, okay? Then we have the radius and the ulna. We discussed earlier about the proximal articulation of the radius and ulna, and we said that the ulna, specifically was the primary articulating bone of the humerus, connecting to the humerus. We see that here with that olecranon process, with the olecranon fossa of the humerus, with that big C-shaped portion of the ulna. But if we look at this, we see that the ulna is the smaller bone here and the radius is
[34:37] bigger. So the radius is the primary articulating bone for the wrist, and then we have this ulna as well right here. I thought that was a hand you were raising back there, like you had a question. Sorry, she was raising her hand bones. So we have the metacarpals up here as well. There are five metacarpals. That's pretty easy to remember because we have five hands. We're going to start off with numbering the phalanges. These are phalanges. That's what they're called anatomically. So to start off with that, numbering-wise, we want to start always with the big thumb
[35:29] or the big toe. So the thumb and the big toe is going to be number one. And then we have one, two, three, four, five, based on the different polanges. So if we asked you what this metacarpal was, we would not want you to just say metacarpal. It would be correct, but half correct. It would be the fifth metacarpal. And then you could throw in the right or left hand as well. I'd love one or two if you wanted to feel a little extra. So the metacarpals, there's five total metacarpals. Then we're going to look at the phalanges. The phalange bones are a little bit different. We have three bones in the two through five phalanges,
[36:17] but in the thumb, or the first phalange, we only have two phalange bones, okay? So these bones are called proximal, middle, and distal. So for the thumb or the first phalange, we have the proximal bone, and then we have the distal bone. We do now have a middle bone for the thumb or the first phalange. For the other four main figures we have, we have a proximal, middle, and distal bones in each. So how many distal bones are there in the hand? distal phalange bones? Five. How many middle phalange bones are there? Four. How many proximal? Five.
[37:03] And then how many metaprofils? Five. Awesome. So there is only four middle bones of the phalanges. Awesome. Does anyone have any questions? How, from that picture, would you tell if it's the left or right hand? Yes, so personally, he said based on the thumb or the pinky, but how I remember it and how I... Can I have a hand? Is there a hand out there? So if you look at this, this hand, unfortunately these hands are kind of already a little curved
[37:57] in so you know whether it's, I mean you can situate yourself based on that. But anatomically we want to situate ourself. I like the PISI form, understanding that this is going to be on the lateral aspect of the hand, and it's going to be the anterior side of the hand. So if we know the anterior side, and we know what's on the lateral side, we can tell whether it's right or left. So the PISI form is going to be right here. So looking like this, we see... actually that's medial, why did I say lateral? The PISI form is going to be medial. So the thumb is going to be pointing laterally, and then
[38:43] the PISI form is right here. We know that this is going to be the right hand. Does that make sense? Anyone else have any questions on that? Go back to that again. We can look at the hand and the anatomical position. The thumb should always be on the outside. Now, it's on the outside here, but if I flip it around, it could be the outside here. What's the other way that I need to look at it? These metacarpals are curved. They form the palm of the hand. So if I see their curve, the curvature is always going to be concave in the front. So this is concave and this is going to be now pointed to the right, so this is going to be a right hand.
[39:34] Look at that curvature of the arch of the hand, the bones, that's going to be facing forward. And then look where the thumb is. If the thumb is to the right side, you got a right hand. To the left side, you have a left hand. The other thing you could do, where the thumb is, you also have to look at where the radius and the ulna are too. too. Palms is always going to be medial. Radius is always going to be lateral. But that curvature of those metacarpals is going to be really important. It's always going to be facing forward. I'll give this back to you guys. I think y'all have any questions on the hand. Thank you for giving him a hand.
[40:27] The ulna is lateral. Alright, now we will move into the lower extremities. Does anyone have any questions on the upper extremities? Alright, next we have the pelvic girdle. This is where the lower extremities attach to the axial skeleton. So, the os coxae, or the pelvis, is formed by the fusion of three bones. That is the ileum, right up here, this yellow or green area right here, and then we have this part right here, this is called the ischium, and then the pubis is right there, okay?
[41:17] So we know that the pubis is going to be anterior. That's going to be this part right here. The ischium is going to be posterior. And then the ilium is going to be the superior portion of the bone. Alright? So we don't want you guys to flip this upside down. If we give you a hip bone, does anyone have a hip bone? No. If we give you this, this guy, we're going to want you to know whether this is right, left, or superior, inferior, or whatever. So, for an anterior cell, this big curvature is going to be superior. Okay? And then you're going to want to find the anterior portion, all right, which is going to be the aces. Everyone feel your hips? Do you feel a bone in your hips?
[42:04] Yes? That is the aces. Okay? The anterior superior iliac spine. We see that right here. This guy right here. that is called the aces, anterior superior iliac spine. Alright, so that's situating us anteriorly. Posteriorly, we see the ischial spine. That is a little small spine right here. We see that right here. It's kind of inferior to it's on ischial, posterior and it's kind of sticking out. A spine is something that sticks out, remember. Alright, and then we have the acetabellum. That is going to be our right and left laterality to help us with that. So if we're looking at that, I'm gonna try to
[42:55] we have the acetabellum. That is where the femur will articulate into the hip bones and that is always going to be facing lateral. You know I needed it. So So if we're looking at this bone, we see that we have the ischial spine right here. Then we have the anterior superior iliac spine here. Then we have the acetabellum. So is this going to be, how are we looking at this? How are y'all looking at this right now? Is this a lateral or medial view? Lateral. Lateral because of what? The acetabellum, awesome. And then if we look on the medial side,
[43:42] it's just a smooth surface, we don't see an acetabellum there, okay? All right, so is this going to be right or left? We know that this is anterior because of the aces, and this is going to be posterior because of the ischial spine, and this is going to be a lateral view because of the acetabellum. So is this going to be right or left? This is going to be left. Good job. Just like that. Okay? Awesome. Then we have something called the pubic symphysis. That is where the two bones come together, right here. We have a little bit of a cartilogenous bit right here, and then we have the pubic symphysis is this area of the hip bones.
[44:34] So that is going to be here, where we see this pubic tubercle. This is where the actual, and it's going to be, this is a medial view so we can't actually see the pubic symphysis very good in this picture. But this is where the pubic bone will articulate with the opposite pubic bone. Does anyone have any questions on this picture? go through a little bit more. This is by the top of bones that really to know when it's right or left here but a couple landmarks here that I want you to see. He talked about the top part that you can feel on the side it's called the iliac crest.
[45:24] and he talked about the front of it is the anterior superior leg spine but that whole area is the crest and it's rough and bone anytime you have rough and bone that means something's going to attach and all your abdominal muscles they attach in that area and the key with this is to see if you have an external or what we call internal view the I don't like what the manual says it says lateral okay and yes it is lateral but it's also external it's to the outside why this acetabulum is the hip joint and so it's always facing to the outside because the next bone he's going to talk about is your femur it attaches right to that little cup okay so we find
[46:13] the crest up at the top that's superior like you mentioned and then this hole down at the bottom that's the obturator framing that's the inferior aspect and so you find the crest superior hole inferior the obturator framing inferior and then you look for that acetabium and that's the outside so you do that first on the bone when you get it at your table and then once you find is it this way or is it this way you're going to look for a couple structures here's the acetabulum you're going to look for these little grooves one right here and one right here they're right behind i mean they're right above or below the issue of spine so i take a look
[47:02] okay and i have the spine right here and there's a big groove right here and there's a little one here. That's always facing posterior. So if I find the top, okay, that's the crest, found the off-treative frame, and now I have it up and down. Acetabulum, that's on the outside, and then I look and I see the spine with a big greater sciatic notch and a lesser sciatic notch. That's posterior. That's how I know I have on my left hip, and for the right hip, it would be the opposite, okay? The internal surface has, they didn't mention, there's no acetabula. I will emphasize why OpenLab is so important for you.
[47:50] You've got to come in here and touch these bones. If you look on your manual or your diagrams that you have, very easy to say, okay, I know the structures. What happens when you get to your practico and it's sitting on the table like this? Because someone before you was looking at it and they put it down and you get it like this and they ask, okay what bone is this? Is it left or right? And you're going to say it's the hip bone, that's easy. How do I know if it's left or right? I got to pick it up, okay? Hey, here's the hole that should be on the bottom. Here's the crest that's on top. There's the acetabulum, that's on the outside. I get on the outside, here's a groove, greater side notch, issue of spine, lesser side notch, that's posterior, I got a left one. You got to be touching the bones, all the bones. Open lab
[48:38] is vital that you're in here for that. Okay? All right. Thank you. All right, we're going to review a little bit. I know we just went over all this, but this picture, There's a lot of overlap with these pictures, but the next two pictures are going to be what we want you to know about the oscoxite. So if you look at this, all of these blue boxes, that is what we want you to know for the hip bones. So we have the ileum, the ischium, and the pubis. right? He said, is it a CFL or acetabulum? Okay, I'll use acetabulum. Acetabulum right here,
[49:31] this is where the femur articulates with the hips, and then the AISI, anterior inferior iliac spine, and then the ASIS is here, and then there's a PSIS and a PIIS, which is the posterior superior iliac spine and the posterior inferior iliac spine. Okay? And then we have the greater side notch and the lesser side notch. That is how he told you guys to understand the posterior view, which is going to be seen here. Right here, this is the greater and then this is the lesser side notch there. We want you to know that. We want you to know all three of the bones, the ischial tuberosity, the ischial ramus,
[50:18] and then the obturator foramen. What do we remember about what a foramen is from last week? A hole, a little more specific than that. It's a hole, which is good. It is important. Anyone else about her? Yes? It allows for muscle groups to spread. There's a lot of important structures that flow through foramens. So this is called the obturator foramen. This is in the hip joint, not the joint, the hip bone. And there's some different functions of that, but we don't need to know that for today. So we have the obturator foramen here.
[51:05] And are there foramen in muscles as well? No? There are no peramen in muscles. There are other openings and holes within muscles, but regarding this, regarding bones, they are called for random when they are holes. Okay? Alright. And then we have, this is the medial view or the internal view. We have the ileum here, the pubis, and the ischium, the obturated peramen, and there's a lot of overlap on each of these two slides but we want you to know both sides as it will help you understand and orient yourself when you're looking at a hip bone on the practical okay all right i'm not going
[51:54] to go through these again let's start with the lower extremity we'll talk about the femur okay does anyone have a femur with it it is a very big bone the biggest bone in our body it is what makes up our thigh. Okay? So this sits like this. We talked about the head of the humerus was going to be medial. So do we think that the head of the femur is also medial? Yes. The head of the femur is also medial. We don't want this big ball sticking out our hip, right? We don't want that. So that is going to be articulated in the what?
[52:41] What of the hip bone? Acetabulum. Acetabulum. Awesome. And then we have some other bony structures that we want you to know on the femur. We have the greater trochanter and then the lesser trochanter. To know a little bit about the posterior and anterior side, we can see that the lesser trochanter is going to be on the more posterior side. It's going to be more on the posterior medial side, but it's going to be more posterior. And then we can also see on the posterior side something called the linea aspera. If we see that up here, the linea aspera is going to be a spiny portion here. It's going to be kind of sharp feeling. It's not
[53:32] actually sharp, but the anterior portion of the femur is going to be a rounded edge, whereas the posterior shaft of the femur is going to be pointed. So now that we know the medial and lateral side and then the posterior and anterior, we're going to look into the superior and inferior views. To know inferior, we're going to look for the intercondylar fossa. Okay, so that is, if we look on the femur, there is a big fossa. Do we remember what that is? What is a fossil? What is a fossil? We discussed it a little earlier.
[54:22] Is it a protrusion of a bone? Is it like a spine? No. It's where something sits, good. But it's like a divot within a bone, or a basin, or a concavity of a bone. Okay? So that is going to be right here. It's going to be between the medial and lateral, no, the medial condyle, the lateral condyle. All right. That is going to be the intercondylar fossa. And then we also have a lateral epicondyle and a medial epicondyle. Okay. So we have that on the humerus as well. But this time we have a medial condyle as well as the lateral condyle.
[55:07] Okay. And then we have the patella surface. The patella surface is where what sits. Does anyone know what this bone is? This is called the patella. We'll go over that next. But this is called the patella. And if we see the patella surface on the femur. Can I see your finger? Thank you. If you see that right here, it's going to be a little bit of a groove, but not as drastic as the intercondylar fossil on the posterior side. This is where the patella sits, okay? That is going to be the patellar surface, okay? Wow, just throw everything around, huh?
[55:55] Okay, so that is the anterior posterior side. So our notes say in the PowerPoint, it says to know the bolded. When I looked over this PowerPoint, this entire thing was bolded, but it also says you do not need to know the things that aren't highlighted. So what I did for you guys was to note I highlighted just the things you need to know. You do not need to know these ones that are not highlighted. So if you want to take a picture of that, that is not on your PowerPoint and Canvas. So if you guys want to take a picture of that, yes. Yes. And there's going to be a couple more like this as well.
[56:42] Okay? So, is this medial or lateral? Medial. And then is the greater trochanter, is that going to be lateral or medial? Lateral. And then the lesser trochanter? Medial. What about the linea aspera? Is that anterior or posterior? Posterior. And what is the linea aspera? What? And you're going to say it? Like the point to a group. Not a groove, but it's a pointy end of the femur. It's not an end, but it's a pointy line down the posterior side.
[57:30] Okay? Posterior side of the shell. Okay? Awesome. And then is the epicondylar fossa, is that going to be posterior or inferior? intercondylar fossa, posterior. That is how we remember for anterior and posterior, okay? All right, now we'll look over at the patella. This is what patella looks like. There's not many things you need to know on this. We're not going to ask you left or right on this. This is a pretty hard bone to understand, left or right. What type of bone is this? So, some more. Good job. And then we'll go over all the other bones, what type of bone
[58:20] they are as well. So, within this, you would think that the bottom, the inferior portion of the bone is called the base, but that is not how we define it anatomically. When we think of an apex, what, like if we're just thinking of what an apex looks like, what does that look like if we were looking at like a structure or something? The peak or the top. The peak or the top, but what does that mean? Does that mean it's going to a point or is that like where it's like ground? It's going to a point. The apex is like the very top. It's going to a point like the top of a pyramid. So when we think about that, we want to know that the top portion
[59:07] or the superior portion is the face because it's the rounder surface and it goes down to the apex. I know it's a little inverted but the apex is where it kind of goes into a pointy portion. Does that make sense? If we look at this apex it's like an upside down pyramid. Alright, and then we have the posterior and anterior view. The posterior view is going to be a little bit more smoother and it's going to be not as grounded. It's going to be more flat. This is where it sits on the patellar surface of the femur.
[59:52] Remember that on the femur, that is the anterior side. And then the anterior side of the patella is going to be more rounded. rounded. So if we feel our knee, that is going to be the anterior side of the patella. Any other questions on the patella? Alright, then we have the tibia amphibula. The tibia amphibula are the two distal leg bones. These are going to be the tibia right here, this this bigger bone, and then we have a fibula, which is the smaller bone, I have that one here. The fibula looks almost like a pencil,
[60:38] I think, if we're looking at it, and then the tibia is just very big. So looking at the tibia, we're going to look at the medial side and then the lateral side, and then what makes it anterior and posterior. So looking at this tibial tuberosity, We're gonna start with anterior posterior. Tibial tuberosity on the tibia is going to be anterior. That is going to be the superior portion as well. So we have this beautiful bone here. This is the tibia, it's a pretty big bone. We have this kind of protrusion or,
[61:26] it's called a tuberosity. We know that tuberosity, tubercle, process, spine, those are protruding parts of bone, correct? And then fossa is going to be a divot. So we know that the tuberosity is going to be sticking out a little bit. You can kind of feel that at almost near the top of your shins, up here near your knee. That is going to be the tibial tuberosity. This is another attachment point for bones. And then we have the medial and lateral condyles here, okay? The medial condyles and then the lateral condyles. So the tibia, when we're thinking about the tibia, this is going to be the medial bone, okay?
[62:15] Whether that be on the right or left, it's going to be medial. And then the fibula is going to be the lateral bone, okay? Specifically, the medial condyle is going to be the most medial aspect of the tibia, and then the lateral condyle is not the most lateral structure within the distal leg, but it is the most lateral structure of the tibia, okay? That is going to be the lateral condyle. And again, the tibia is the primary articulating bone for the femur. Then we go down into the shin bone or the tibia. This is what we feel when we're feeling the anterior surface of our leg.
[63:04] It's very pointy almost. So we talked about the pointy aspect of the femur, the linea aspera, that is posterior. But in the tibia, the pointy or the spiny area of the tibia is going to be the anterior portion. And the flatter end is going to be the posterior portion. So it's a little opposite than that, than the femur. But if we feel this right here, everyone feel your shin. That pointy, that sharper end, that triangular portion is going to be the tibia. and that is going to be more medially. And then the fibula, this bone here,
[63:52] that is going to be the lateral bone, and it's going to extend actually further than the tibia, because we have our foot bone that kind of rests here, which he is a foot factor. So he has, if you want to talk about that, that would be great. We have the medial and lateral malleolus. That is what we feel in our ankles. If we feel our ankles, there's those big boating processes that we're feeling. So on the medial side, we have the medial malleolus of the tibia, and on the lateral side, we have the lateral malleolus of the fibula. Okay, so they don't have both. Both bones don't have both of the malleoluses,
[64:38] but each of them have a medial, Well one has medial and then the other has the lower. Okay? Yeah, you want to see? You can see. Can we get to the most important part of the body? Important, most important. How do you want to get? Alright, the foot. And so with the foot, remember the wrist, We had the wrist and then we had the hand. The wrist we had the carpal bones. Let's give you a quiz here. See if you can remember something. How many carpal bones do you have in the body?
[65:25] That was good. Let's give two points to the first person that gets it right. She said 10. Someone's got to raise a hand. Ready to back? 10 carpal bones? Not 10. Okay, someone else? Anyone else? 20 carpal bones in the body? Nope. 16. Eight in each wrist. Alright, keep that in mind. That's the body. If I said the right wrist, there'd be eight. Then you'd have to know it. If I said the body, so there's 16 carpal bones. In the feet, this part here, these are called the tarsal bones. Okay? And we have two in the back, this is called the rear foot. The one here at the
[66:11] top that goes into the ankle is called the talus. The one that is our heel bone is called the calcaneus. So talus and calcaneus, they make up the rear foot or the back part of the tarsal bones. And then we have these bones right here in the front. They're going to be making up what we call the front or the middle of the foot. We have this one here called the navicular. We have the medial cuneiform, the intermediate cuneiform, the lateral cuneiform, and then we have the cuboid bone. So there's a saying they give the circus needs more interesting little clowns. okay, the talus circus calcaneus needs navicular, okay, needs more interesting
[67:00] little clowns, okay, so we can go through and remember that saying and remember the first letter for the bones there too. These, it's just a matter of coming in here, looking at that foot and just knowing it, all right, you can look at the diagram that you should be able to get out of the book without, I mean on the on the bones without any problem or practical. Then we get to the arch of the foot. Remember we had the arch of the hand. What do we call the bones in the arch of the hand? What are the bones in the arch of the hand called? Metacarpals. Metacarpals. In the foot they're called metatarsals. Remember we have the carpal bones of the foot, I mean in the wrist, and we have metacarpals in the hand. In the feet
[67:50] we have tarsal bones and then we have metatarsals. And we name them one through five, just like we did with the hand. The big toes, number one, first metatarsal, second, third, fourth, and fifth. Okay? And then we have our phalanges. And just like the hands, you have 14 phalanges in each foot. You got two going to the big toe, the proximal and distal phalanges, and then you have three going to the lesser toes, a proximal, a middle, and a distal phalange. Okay, 14 phalanges. So, if I ask you a question, how many phalanges do you have in the body, you would say? 28. 28. Who says 28? Phalanges in the body. Remember? Feet in there.
[68:42] See, again, I'm giving you the tricky questions now so you don't mess it up on a test. 28 in the hand, 28 in the feet, 56 all together. All right? And then underneath the first metatarsal of this head, right here, this could be a bonus question. Right under that first metatarsal, you're going to have two little sesamoid bones. Okay? They're medial and lateral sesamoids. them along with your kneecap are the main sesamoid bones in the body and then genetically we can have some other sesamoids in your toes and in your hands that sometimes they show up in people and they don't. What are sesamoid bones? They are bones within tendons.
[69:27] That's what a sesamoid bone is. Okay? Alright. Any questions on the foot? With that, I think back there you said 10 earlier. There are 10 metacarpals, there are 16 carpal bones. Alright, any questions on today's material? We're going to go through, I'll ask you a little, some questions about it. What type of bone is this? Wanna go? I got one other thing, I did wanna share one other thing.
[70:14] And this will be, this is another thing that everyone messes up. And there's a bone that we mess up. I need a phone. These three bones, they're all skinny, long bones. And two of them are in the forearm, these two right here, the radius and the ulna, and the other one is the fibula. And so when you see them, they're all skinny. One way to remember each one of these is based on something unique to each one. The fibula in the foot that we just talked about, okay, you mentioned it looked like
[71:00] a pencil, it does look like a pencil. I try to think of it like an arrow, okay. It's got a little pointy end here and it's got where the feathers would be back here and like an arrow there, okay, that's what it looks like. Or a pencil, either one. And the ulna has the part that grabs a hold of the humerus, looks like a wrench. Okay? And if you think of it like a wrench, okay, it's got that wrench part on it that holds it, it's got the coronary process, it's got the lepranone process and the trochlear nox there. Okay? That's a wrench. And then the radius has that little circular rotating area on the head of the radius that turns.
[71:49] That's why our arm, here's the ulna, here's the radius, that's why we can rotate, pronate and supinate our forearm. Okay? And it's because that radius, that little hole, that little head can turn. It can rotate the bone. Okay? Those three bones, I believe, are going to be confusing to you. So if you can remember those three things, the wrench for the ulna, the head that's the rotating part of the radius, and then either the pencil or the arrow for your scapula. You should have these down without any problem. Okay? All right, what bone is, are these?
[72:47] What, not what bone, what type of bone? Long. It's also long. All right, we'll move on to our activity for today. So there are, there's one main activity we're going to be doing for, let's say, well, we don't do that. So we're going to start with the build a chat, okay? Build a chat activity. I know it's a little funny, I didn't name it, but build a chat. So right over here, I'm actually going to take that. We have two buckets of bums.
[73:34] These are almost a full skeleton. It's relatively a full skeleton, but there are types of bones you need to know. This side of the room is going to be a teen, and then this side of the room is going to be a teen. These will be the spiny scapulas, and these will be the fierce fibulas. Fierce fibulas. Fierce fibulas, and y'all can be the spiny scapulas. So we're going to break off into groups. First things first, we're going to build the skeleton with you. Me and Dr. Blaze. Dr. Blaze will be with this side back there, and then I'll be over here with them. So we'll basically build it with you.
[74:24] We'll talk through everything. We'll look at the right and left. I want you guys to help and decide for yourself what is right and left. first and then we'll talk about it review it and then after that we'll put everything back in the bucket and then we'll time you and you'll go against each other and you will compare contrast and whoever finishes first gets bragging rates not extra credit today. We do. Okay so what would you name your team with the spineless scapula? Spine-y. I thought it was spineless. With a fierce, big-y-loose. Spine-y. Yeah. But, yeah, so we're going to go over it with you first, go through the entire body, talk
[75:18] about it, do that, and then we'll give you five minutes afterwards to compete against each other. You guys, we'll both do it up here. And then we'll do that. And then we should be good to go by the end of that. All right? So y'all can come up here with me. Do you want us to break down a little? Oh, no. We have all the books. All right. How is everyone doing? Grand. Grand? Grand. Are you all doing good too?
[76:07] Yeah. Amazing. How does everyone feel in this material? Obviously it's a lot. It's a lot. I concur. You concur? It is a lot. Did y'all study the oxoskeleton yet? A little bit. Well, we'll test your analysis today. Y'all can get together. I want everyone working to build it. And you go ahead and build it. And then we'll talk about it after. Oh, you're going to show this first. Oh, I'm not showing you. We'll talk about it after. Oh, okay. Yeah. We'll talk about your mistakes. Okay. But work together to do that first. And if it's easier, you can just dump it out and give it to me.
[77:07] If y'all want to come around or something. So what we want you to do is not actually build it, you just want to lay it out on the floor. They're not going to connect and stand up. They're not. So you just want us to lay how they would go? Yeah. Okay. Oh. I think that's...
[78:23] uh Okay, the bony thing. Yeah, it needs to be on the outside. Okay. oh
[79:25] oh yes Latvia is going to be doing it. Make sure we're going to send the correct... Yes. Correct. I think we got it.
[80:11] Yep. I love one. Like, yeah. Good job. Thank you. I don't think I mentioned them.
[81:02] Oh, okay, okay, okay. I thought you meant the different anatomical theory. I'll say, well, I think they kind of, they have an actual, like, Yeah. I don't think it really helps. No. Uh-huh. So on the other side, is it pointing up or down? I don't know. The problem is that the curvature is on the wrong side. You got like half of it.
[81:50] I'm not going to change it. So, if you look at this, sorry, I can't hold all of those together. Alright, if you look at this, we have the ulna, which is medial, and then the radius,
[82:43] which is lateral. But you can't use that until it's public. The whole nine is medial. The radius is black. Is this right? For sure? Or is it supposed to be black? No. Good. Okay, and then we have the one with the head. Yeah, that was the problem. Okay, so the second one is at C2. Right? Okay. And the higher rate bone is at C3, so that's going to go right under the... Right, guys.
[83:28] Okay, so now we're down at the periphery down here. How do you know this is the right hip? It goes thoracic and lumbar. It was correct. That was the thing. We're going to talk about it. We're going to talk about it once it's correct. You have two wrong things. yeah
[84:15] awesome that is great amazing I mean it doesn't really work right now but it would be like this. So we have attached it. Yeah. I'm... What do you think? This is the... In this scenario, but we want to make sure that the arrowhead, you see how it's like,
[85:03] fly on one end and then like down on the other. That's gonna be more feasible. Okay. Let's walk through it. So, why is it... Do we know the cranium head bones? Maybe? Is that where you're going to run when you can? Maybe. Okay, I mean... It's a hard thing to talk about. Absolutely. But there's how many of us? And well, there's some of us. But what are the main parameters? These ones.
[85:50] Frontal. I'd say for this one. What's this one? Frontal. Frontal. And we have the deep one. Yes, it's a phenoid. Awesome. And then there's an epimorphon as well. What is...one of these? Yeah, it's a power. Good. And how do you know which one is which? The dense. The dense. Good job. How do you guys know that that is? Yeah. Smarties. Smarties. Yes. That's a good thing, huh? What are those two holes called? Oh, I forgot.
[86:36] It's called the transverse furring. Okay, and then there's also a biped or four spinous process. It's not really visible here. It's not a very good one. Like that. And then what is this bone? The highway bone. Alright. And then why do we use the scapula this way? It's all correct. So, I'm just asking. Why do we put it that way? Because the ridge is on the back? Ridge? The rest? Spine. The spine of the scapula is on the back. So what is this process right here?
[87:26] Close. The acromial is close. Core port. Core port process is here, and then the acromial is right there. And then what is that catamal? Glenoid. Glenoid cavity. Awesome. Alright, and then we have these clavicles as well. Obviously they can't say them at this, so this is my position for them. But why didn't you say this was the snowman and this was the acromial? Okay. The circle end is more flat, because it goes like right here. And then this is the clout, the crumbial end. Okay, so it's a little more round.
[88:14] And then we have the anterior portion is going to be that. That we feel here. That's literally the same. It's gonna be there. And then we have, what is this one? Specifically about this one. Good, good, good, good, good, good, good. Oh, maneuvering. Close, I mean, this is what? That's the I-Corp concept down here. What is this one? Yeah. up or down on the acromic side. Divide. Divide. And what are these? Cartilage.
[88:59] Costal. Costal cartilage. And then how many true bones are there? How many true ribs? Culture bones. Seven. Seven. Seven pairs. So 14 total. How many false? So 14 total, how many false? Okay, total five pairs. Good. It would be seven. If we're looking at one side, it's seven groups and then five false serves. And then two false? No, because the floating is technically false.
[89:45] Oh, okay. I didn't know that. I didn't really realize the last time. Yeah, so there's false and then there's true. False is either they connect via other hospital cartilage, they don't directly attach to the sternum, or they're floating. There's two pairs of floating, so four total. Okay. And then let's go to the humans. Why did we put this guy this way? Okay. Just look at it now, review it one more time. They're both right now. Keep going. You're on your own. Okay. The tropia. Capitula.
[90:31] You both know and then we'll let them come. Why did we, because we could have put the hat on the side. So why did we put this one on the right side? Because don't you want the bolts to be facing? We're almost done. Wait, what are you guys doing? Well you're fast. No, not fast. You're going to be accurate. We are accurate. That's why we're taking our time. So if you want the bolts to be on the side so that it could have fixed and saved them. The what? The glenoid papy. The glenoid papy. The glenoid papy. Alright, so we have the ulna that's articulated here. What is this little surface here?
[91:18] We said that this is posterior. It is a ponsa. Do we know what ponsa? So what is this called? And so it starts with the, oh. Yeah, I like Renaud. I like Renaud. So this is the what? And this is the. And then this is the. Because this is the. And then this is the what? Sounds like core voice. Core and noise. Core and noise. Alright.
[92:06] Lock it in. No, we're going to ask you like bones. Or what is this? We'll ask you like, what is this? So specific, it would be a lepronon process of the right. Okay. So thinking like one person, like how many bones are going to be in what amount? You'll have three questions per, just like any other. So that would be like this, what bone is this. We want you to do left and right with it. I mean, you have to discern whether it's less or less, whether you need it or not. But we'll probably type it. At least on the quiz.
[92:58] Not on the quiz. Alright, and then this is the what? What class? Radius. And why did you put this in here? I want to picture it. It's really close. It's still the place to go. It's always the way it's cooler and oxygen to get the bridge. Yeah, so that is like a, feels like that. And then also, it's flat. So the flat ends are going to be superior. And we also have this right here. This, I remember I told you was posterior. Okay, so that was good. And then if we already know that this is superior and this is posterior, and we're looking at an anterior view,
[93:44] This will be a bifurcrum. And then remember that this is the primary bone that articulates with the wrist at the bone of the scaffold, and then this is the primary bone that articulates with the wrist. Alright, great. Why didn't you pick this as a giraffe? I've always fallen back in here in a second. I know, I know, like, because that one is like a trap. It's not the bigger. It's bigger and thicker than the cervical. So it's true.
[94:29] But it's not the thickest. The spine is processed going down. And then also costal articulation from the side. All right, I mean this is the lumbar, this is the biggest and biggest, I mean this is still biggest and biggest. Why would we say this one? I think one like slant downward. The rastic slant downward. And then this one's more straight out. But we also have a more triangular shaped vertebral tendon compared to these, which are more circular. circular because there's the spinal cord. Mostly the cladid cord. Alright, now we have the hip bones.
[95:15] You did a good job on that. See with the acetabulum. We already have this. So the femur is good as well. What is the posterior marker that I told you guys to bring? What do you think? We're almost done. Very close. Thank you so much. So the posterior side, that's going to be the intercondylar fossa. Right here. That's the intercondylar fossa. That's posterior. Then we have the medial. And then we can also see that it's more posterior medial.
[96:02] and then this is the crated sperm injury that's going to be left. And then on the femur we have the linea aspero, which is the triangular pointy part in the back. And then for this, you did great looking at this. This is the tibial tuberosity. That is anterior, which I think you got. And then we see the more spine part of the dance here, we feel that. And then this is gonna be the more medial. So this is the medial malleolus, we're gonna feel here, okay? Same with this. This is gonna be the lateral malleolus here. And then this is the aerozomalus.
[96:48] Okay? Oh, okay. They're waiting on us. Alright, do you all want to bring up your bones up here? And we'll do it together right beside each other, okay? Great. You guys got the foot right? Alright, do you all want to put it back in there? And then we'll play our game. And then we'll be able to go. here
[97:43] all right guys completely fine. Alright, so the rules are this. You have to build it within five, why don't you just dump it up? You won't need it but I'm going to give you five minutes. You'll have five minutes to do this. You won't need the five minutes. But I want you to do it all in order it needs to be in the correct post your if you're it's going to be in the
[98:31] correct orientation that's the word and each of you will have five minutes to do it and then we'll see who wins whoever says done first gets the win and then we'll talk about it if they're correct right if they're correct if they are correct we take good time and then we take off points for everything they get wrong five seconds exactly so um accuracy is important all right y'all ready does that make sense i did not explain that very well i'm sorry all right you ready three two one I'm going to wait.
[99:31] Okay. Thank you. I don't know. I think it's like the handle.
[100:33] I think it's like the handle. No, they're not. They're not. Okay. Good? Done. Done. Alright. Y'all finish up. I'm going to get a knife for them. Okay. Done. Alright. I'm going to get a first time for them. Yeah, I do. I'm feeling pretty good. Alright, let's look at it. This is the top. It's like here. Y'all have any of your ones? Cool. Okay. The clavicles. Good job.
[101:19] Good job. Good job. It is upside down. It is upside down. Oh, now you can hear your stuff. We're done. We're done. We're done. We're still on the screen. It's a point off. Okay. All right. Are y'all done? Yes. Well, I didn't laugh it, so I don't actually need to do that. You can keep it like this. You can keep it like this. You can keep it like this. We only got one to cover both. The femurs look good, cervical, hyoid, hips look good, vertebrae, left, look good, good, good.
[102:11] This is supposed to be like a bath. And so that's minus one. This is another minus one that's supposed to be like a rash. Remember the rash, the rash, and this right here. Those are going to be lateral and medial. Okay, so the those and then the safe roll is good. The hands are good. So that's... These are good. So these won't be actually like this. Everything looked good except for the higher it was just houses I should put in one. This problem will be in the bottom.
[102:57] Good job, guys. All right, good job. Good job. And I love how you put the joints together there too. The steamers are good. I don't think Reynolds could be closed. All right, so there's only one point, one thing off the appeal. Good job, guys. Yeah, these would be more like this, but I'm like, I don't know if this is a good one. Awesome, good job, guys. They only had one thing. The hire was out of place. They had the Korean thing. Well, it's not a hire technically out of place. So they have three things. I'll put it out there.
[104:05] Did it roll over? No. No. Yeah, it was. I mean, it was really good. Yeah. It must have been . Yeah. Yeah. Oh, that's right. Yeah. I'm not sure if you have anyone there. I'm not sure if you have anyone there. I'm not sure if you have anyone there. I'm going to override this this one time.
[104:57] And because he told me in secret, he said, I have to say this, Dr. Blades. but he said no please give me one shot. Everyone's getting five points. Yay! Put me back in the black bucket please. Alright. Okay. Thank you. Say hey you all. Well you got ten points. Well I need it so. I need it too bro. I don't know. a little bit more than you did because of the last two weeks.